                         6.868/MAS.731J: Society of Mind Spring 2007, April 15 
Lecture 8: Problem Set 8 (Due Friday Apr. 20) 
Reading: Emotion Machine, Chapter 7 
Problem 1 
In order to find meaningful answers you must first be able to formulate 
good questions. List ten questions you would like to answer about 
Chapter 7. 
Problem 2 
On pg. 229−230, Minsky lists examples of critics and selectors for 
the top 4 layers (deliberative, reflective, self−reflective, and 
self−conscious). For example, in the deliberative layer, "An 
action did not achieve the expected effect" is a critic, while 
"Find a better way to predict" is a selector that this critic 
activates. 
a) For each of these four layers, list two additional 
critic−selector pairs. 
b) Describe a way to activate a common Emotion as a way to think, 
such as Anger, Compassion, Pity, Empathy, or Sympathy, in terms 
of description of critic−selector pairs. 
c) Think about implementing a critic. What would it mean for the 
critic to be ’activated’. Explain how this could be done 
and what other computational resources would be required. (For 
ideas, consult Push Singh’s PhD thesis.) 
Problem 3 
Section 7−4 discusses many different examples of useful ways to think. 
a) Choose your favorite three of these ways to think and give an example 
of each. 
b) Think of your own problem that can’t be solved by any of these ways to 
think. 
c) Describe a new way to think that can solve this problem. 
Problem 4 
Solving the problems in this problem set could be considered an intelligent 
task. 
a) Describe at least three critic−selector pairs that helped you to solve 
the problems in this problem set. 
b) Try to categorize the critics and selectors of part (a) into the 
layers of Model−6. Discuss why you chose the classification for each 
critic or selector resource. 
Cite as: Marvin Minsky, course materials for 6.868J/MAS.731J The Society of Mind, Spring 2007. 
MIT OpenCourseWare (http://ocw.mit.edu/), Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Downloaded on [DD Month YYYY].
