                         6.868/MAS.731J: Society of Mind Spring 2007, April 30 
Lecture 10: Problem Set 9 (Due Friday May 5) 
Reading: Emotion Machine, Chapter 8 
Problem 1 
In order to find meaningful answers you must first be able to formulate 
good questions. List ten questions you would like to answer about 
Chapter 8. 
Problem 2 
Credit−assignment processes decide what is important to learn or 
remember. Allan Newell, quoted on page 273, describes how the 
success or failure of a method by itself is not enough information 
for quick learning to occur. Instead, each small step within the 
a larger context of methods must be considered in learning. 
Minsky goes on to describe how credit must be assigned to each of 
the different levels of goals and methods depending on what 
methods were responsible for the success or failure in the current 
context. If reflective−level critics can detect complex 
arrangements of failure or success states, there can deploy very 
specific techniques to maximize what is learned from a single 
problem−solving experience. 
a) Consider a problem solving situation in which you have a small 
set of knowledge representations and a collection of successful 
If−Do reactions. Describe a simple problem domain for these 
successful If−Do reactions. 
b) Describe in detail the If condition and the Do action of four 
of these If−Do reaction rules. 
c) Describe a slightly novel learning situation in which one of 
these If−Do reaction rules now fails. Explain what changes or 
additions should be made to your rules in order to remember 
this failure and react accordingly in the future. 
d) Classify the type of failure (See Singh 2003 [1] for ideas) 
and describe how a credit assignment process could detect 
and fix this error. 
[1] http://web.media.mit.edu/~push/ReflectiveCritics.html 
(Extra−Credit) 
Describe a scheme of how success could turn interpreted rules 
into ’compiled rules’. 
Problem 3 
Using multiple representations that have panalogies for quickly 
switching from one representation to another is a very adaptable 
technique for solving problems. A panalogy can be used to quickly 
translate the problem into another mental realm when one way of 
thinking gets stuck. Problem solving can then make further 
progress in this new mental realm’s way of thinking. 
a) Stories, Scripts, Semantic Networks, Trans−Frames, K−Lines, and 
Micronemes are a few specific examples of representations that 
Cite as: Marvin Minsky, course materials for 6.868J/MAS.731J The Society of Mind, Spring 2007. 
MIT OpenCourseWare (http://ocw.mit.edu/), Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 
Downloaded on [DD Month YYYY]. 
could be used in different ways of thinking. Associate each 
representation with a few types of problems those structures 
make problems easy to solve. (Hint: The power of a 
representation does not only come from *what* it can possibly 
represent, but how easily it can be used to solve problems and 
how the representation can be constructed by another processes 
involved with learning and refining representations.) 
b) Describe a problem solving situation where using one of these 
representations might get stuck at finding a solution. 
c) Explain how using a panalogy can translate a stuck problem 
state into a different realm’s way of thinking that allows the 
stuck way of thinking to successfully make further progress 
toward a solution in the second realm. 
d) A desk can be viewed as furniture, chair, property, a 
collection of wood, and so on. What parts of the EM 
architecture would be responsible for selecting these 
representations. Ground your argument in a specific problem 
solving example. 
Cite as: Marvin Minsky, course materials for 6.868J/MAS.731J The Society of Mind, Spring 2007. 
MIT OpenCourseWare (http://ocw.mit.edu/), Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 
Downloaded on [DD Month YYYY]. 
