                       6.868/MAS.731J: Society of Mind Spring 2007, February 7 
Lecture 1: Problem Set 1 (Due Feb. 14) 
Reading: Emotion Machine, Chapter 0 (Preface) 
Emotion Machine, Chapter 1 
Problem 1 
In order to find meaningful answers you must first be able to formulate 
good questions. List ten questions you would like to answer about 
Chapter 1. 
Problem 2 
Minsky explains that our culture does not have a rich enough vocabulary 
and conceptual lexicon to describe most mental processes. For example, the 
popular term "consciousness" refers to a vast number of different cognitive 
processes, which make it difficult to ask meaningful questions about how 
minds work and build intelligent systems. 
a) List some other vague terms, besides the ones described in Chapter 1. 
b) Describe the advantages and disadvantages of using ambiguous or 
abstract terminology. 
c) Unpack another emotional suitcase word and describe examples of 
various "senses" of the term. 
Problem 3 
In some situations emotions can be useful ways of thinking, while in others 
these same ways of thinking can be detrimental. For example, if one sees 
their child walking near a cliff, becoming Anxious is a very relevant 
response that hones the senses and primes fast motor reactions. However, 
in the context of taking a test, some people feel Test Anxiety, a related 
emotion, where these same effects make it difficult for complex ways of 
thinking to operate without being distracted by these same "fight or 
flight" reactions. 
a) Pick three emotions and describe their characteristics, as turning on 
or off resources. 
b) Using these same emotions, describe situations where these emotions 
and their characteristics would be helpful. Describe situations where 
these characteristics would be detrimental. 
Problem 4 
Chapter 1 describes different kinds of Love. Make different models of at 
least three different kinds of Love from the chapter. What characteristics 
or mental resources do these models share and what resources are unique to 
different kinds of Love? 
Cite as: Marvin Minsky, course materials for 6.868J/MAS.731J The Society of Mind, Spring 2007. 
MIT OpenCourseWare (http://ocw.mit.edu/), Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Downloaded on [DD Month YYYY].
