                       6.868/MAS.731J: Society of Mind Spring 2007, March 11th

Lecture 5: Problem Set 5 (Due WEDNESDAY Mar. 21)

Reading: Emotion Machine, Chapter 4

Problem 1

In order to find meaningful answers you must first be able to formulate

good questions. List ten questions you would like to answer about

Chapter 4.

Problem 2

Regarding the word Consciousness, Minsky states, "I’ll argue that it would

be a mistake to believe in any such entity−−because we ought to be asking

this question, instead: ‘Isn’t it remarkable that any single word or phrase

could have come to mean so many different things?’"

Packing too many ideas into one suitcase word like consciousness doesn’t

get us very far, unpack some of the different ideas that we talk about

when we refer to consciousness.

Problem 3

"Sam is an MIT freshman trying to start a Punk band, while studying

Linguistics. While Sam is planning his week, he notices a big red circle

around Wednesday on his calendar and realizes that he has scheduled a punk

gig at All Asia for the night before his Neurolinguistics midterm−−not

allowing for the customary study time. Sam then gets depressed because he 

realizes that he is always making conflicting plans like this. He thinks

about what his Dad would say about getting so upset and makes a resolute

decision to plan ahead next time."

a) Using this story about Sam and the layers from Model−6 below to

categorize the different levels of reflection.

1. Reactive

2. Learned−reactive

3. Deliberative

4. Reflective

5. Self−reflective

6. Self−conscious

b) Now make up a description of one sequence of your thought processes that

contains an example of each of Minsky’s 6−layers of reflection.

Problem 4

Knowledge representations are only as good as they are useful for solving

problems. Minsky discusses the many different models that Jane uses of

herself in the Cartesian Theater example.

a) What are some reasons why you would need to switch between many small

models rather than just using one complete model for all problems?

b) Describe some of the resources that would be involved in managing

different self−models. Discuss the tradeoffs of maintaining

consistent versus inconsistent self−models.

c) Think of and describe a way to change self−models, such as in the

context of learning a new programming language or sport.

Cite as: Marvin Minsky, course materials for 6.868J/MAS.731J The Society of Mind, Spring 2007. 
MIT OpenCourseWare (http://ocw.mit.edu/), Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Downloaded on [DD Month YYYY].
Problem 5 
Think of and describe five project ideas that you would be interested 
in actually doing. Here are a few sample project ideas: 
− Managing multiple problem solvers in one architecture. 
− Implement a planning system that uses reflection to get unstuck. 
− Implementing a system that learns Critics, Suppressors, and Censors. 
− A ’bipolar critic−selector’ search process applied to a planning 
domain. 
− Choose a mental disorder from psychology, such as ADHD, and 
translate and analyze it in terms of Minsky’s model. 
− Describe a language model that uses multiple representations such as 
different levels of detail or different points of view. 
− An application that uses and changes self−models depending on the 
current problem or feedback from imprimers. 
− Implement a system of Panalogies reasoning with multiple 
representations. 
Cite as: Marvin Minsky, course materials for 6.868J/MAS.731J The Society of Mind, Spring 2007. 
MIT OpenCourseWare (http://ocw.mit.edu/), Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Downloaded on [DD Month YYYY].
