                      6.868/MAS.731J: Society of Mind Spring 2007, February 25 
Lecture 3: Problem Set 3 (Due Mar. 2) 
Reading: Emotion Machine, Chapter 2 
Problem 1 
In order to find meaningful answers you must first be able to formulate 
good questions. List ten questions you would like to answer about 
Chapter 2. 
Problem 2 
Minsky states, "Our language uses a great many words for referring to our 
emotional states. When we described Carol’s playing with mud, we used more 
than a dozen of them−−Affection, Alarm, Anxiety, Assurance, Disappointment, 
Disgrace, Disturbance, Frustration, Fear, Inclination, Pleasure, Pride, 
Satisfaction, Shame, and Sorrow." 
a) What are three different goals that are pursued in the different 
versions of the story in the chapter? 
b) Make a small subgoal tree for each of these different goals. 
Problem 3 
Regarding Remembering, Minsky explains that "On the surface, it might seem 
easy enough−−like dropping a note into a box and then taking it out when 
you need it. But when we look more closely, we see that this must involve 
many processes: you first must decide what items your note should contain, 
and find suitable ways to represent them−−and then you must make some 
connections to them so that after you store those parts away, you’ll be 
able to reassemble them." 
a) What are examples of the types of items that your note should contain? 
For example, you might need to later recall prerequisites for a 
successful action toward a goal. Try to think of at least three types 
of items related to mental events as well as three related to external 
events. 
b) Minsky discourages the simplistic notion of pure hierarchies of goals. 
What are at least three other additional representations that could 
help for describing your answers to part (a)? 
Problem 4 
Minsky discusses many different types of Imprimers in Chapter 2. 
a) List three different types of imprimers from the chapter. 
b) Give three examples of goals from the different types of goals that 
each of these different types of imprimer affect. 
Cite as: Marvin Minsky, course materials for 6.868J/MAS.731J The Society of Mind, Spring 2007. 
MIT OpenCourseWare (http://ocw.mit.edu/), Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Downloaded on [DD Month YYYY].
